---
name: Jekyll HW
tools: [Python, Altair, Vega-Lite]
image: 
description: Building inventory visualizations using Altair and Vega-Lite.
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---

# Plot 1: Average Building Size by Usage Type

The visualization shows the average building size by square footage by usage type. Each bar is encoded to a usage type while the length of the bar is encoded to the average square footage of the building (quantitative). I sorted the bars in descending order so we can easily tell which usage types are the largest to the smallest.

The data transformation was dropping rows with 0 or lower values for square footage. I didn't need to drop null values because the column didn't have any. I then grouped the buildings by usage type and graphed it out with a simple bar chart. I didn't need to use a color map, as this was a simple bar chart, which all measured the same thing, so there was nothing I needed to distinguish from each other.

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/plot1.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

# Plot 2: Number of State Buildings Acquired Per Year

This visualization shows plots out the number of buildings acquired by Illinois state vs the year. I encoded the year to the x-axis as an ordinal variable and I encoded the number of buildings acquired to the y-axis as a quantitative variable. Using a bar chart is ideal here, as it allows us to easily visualize the trends and standout years of building acquisition. I added an interactive element to hover each bar and know the eact number of buildings acquired and year as we have over a hundred years worth of bars, which makes it difficult to distinguish.

One transformation I had to make to the data was to drop all the rows with a 0 in Year Acquired, as its likely a stand in for unknown. I want to ensure that my graph did not potentially take these rows into account. Otherwise, since the other variables I needed were accounted for I did no other transformations. As for the color scheme of the graph, I went for the default color, as there is no need to distinguish anything particular here.

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/plot2.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

<div class="left">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/building_inventory.csv" text="The Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/alsmonde/alsmonde.github.io/blob/main/python_notebooks/jekyllhw.ipynb" text="The Analysis" %}
</div>
