---
layout: post
title: Jekyll HW
---

<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vega@5"></script>
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vega-lite@5"></script>
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vega-embed@6"></script>

<a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/building_inventory.csv"><button>The Data</button></a>
<a href="https://github.com/alsmonde/IS445/blob/main/jekyllhw.ipynb"><button>The Analysis</button></a>

## Plot 1: Average Building Size by Usage Type

The visualization shows the average building size by square footage by usage type. Each bar is encoded to a usage type while the length of the bar is encoded to the average square footage of the building (quantitative). I sorted the bars in descending order so we can easily tell which usage types are the largest to the smallest.

The data transformation was dropping rows with 0 or lower values for square footage. I didn't need to drop null values because the column didn't have any. I then grouped the buildings by usage type and graphed it out with a simple bar chart. I didn't need to use a color map, as this was a simple bar chart, which all measured the same thing, so there was nothing I needed to distinguish from each other.

<div id="plot1"></div>
<script>
  vegaEmbed('#plot1', '/assets/plot1.json')
</script>

## Plot 2: Number of State Buildings Acquired Per Year

This visualization shows plots out the number of buildings acquired by Illinois state vs the year. I encoded the year to the x-axis as an ordinal variable and I encoded the number of buildings acquired to the y-axis as a quantitative variable. Using a bar chart is ideal here, as it allows us to easily visualize the trends and standout years of building acquisition. I added an interactive element to hover each bar and know the eact number of buildings acquired and year as we have over a hundred years worth of bars, which makes it difficult to distinguish.

One transformation I had to make to the data was to drop all the rows with a 0 in Year Acquired, as its likely a stand in for unknown. I want to ensure that my graph did not potentially take these rows into account. Otherwise, since the other variables I needed were accounted for I did no other transformations. As for the color scheme of the graph, I went for the default color, as there is no need to distinguish anything particular here.

<div id="plot2"></div>
<script>
  vegaEmbed('#plot2', '/assets/plot2.json')
</script>
